[Examples] LLM/Gemma3 Example (#4937)
skypilot-org/skypilot: llm/gemma3/README.md

This guide walks through how to run and host Gemma 3 models **on any infrastructure** ranging from local GPU workstations, Kubernetes clusters, and public clouds ([15+ clouds supported](https://docs.skypilot.co/en/latest/getting-started/installation.html)).

SkyPilot supports a variety of LLM frameworks and models. In this guide, we use [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm), an open-source library for fast LLM inference and serving, as an example.

**Note**: The provided YAML configuration is set up for the Gemma 3 4B instruction-tuned model, but can be easily modified for other Gemma 3 variants.

## Step 0: Setup

Install SkyPilot on your local machine:

```bash
pip install 'skypilot-nightly[all]'
```

To set up and verify your infra, run 

```bash
sky check 
```
See [docs](https://docs.skypilot.co/en/latest/getting-started/installation.html) for details.

You also need to set up your huggingface account and the [Gemma3 usage agreement](http://huggingface.co/google/gemma-3-4b-pt). 

## Step 1: Run it with SkyPilot

Now it's time to run deepseek with SkyPilot. The instruction can be dependent on your existing hardware.  

> 8B: 

Reviewer: should this be 4B given the model name is `google/gemma-3-4b-it`?

  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "google/gemma-3-4b-it",
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "You are a helpful assistant."
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Who are you?"
      }
    ]
  }' | jq .
```

Get response 
```
{
  "id": "chatcmpl-525ee12bfe3a456b9e764639724e1095",
  "object": "chat.completion",
  "created": 1741805203,
  "model": "google/gemma-3-4b-it",
  "choices": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "message": {
        "role": "assistant",
        "reasoning_content": null,
        "content": "I'm Gemma, a large language model created by the Gemma team at Google DeepMind. I’m an open-weights model, which means I’m widely available for public use! \n\nI can take text and images as inputs and generate text-based responses. \n\nIt’s nice to meet you!",
        "tool_calls": []
      },
      "logprobs": null,
      "finish_reason": "stop",
      "stop_reason": 106
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 20,
    "total_tokens": 87,
    "completion_tokens": 67,
    "prompt_tokens_details": null
  },
  "prompt_logprobs": null
}
```

## Deploy the Service with Multiple Replicas

> The launching command above only starts a single replica (with 2 nodes) for the service. SkyServe helps deploy the service with multiple replicas with out-of-the-box load balancing, autoscaling and automatic recovery.

Reviewer 2: Should be 1 node?
```suggestion
The launching command above only starts a single replica (with 1 node) for the service. SkyServe helps deploy the service with multiple replicas with out-of-the-box load balancing, autoscaling and automatic recovery.
```

Importantly, it also enables serving on spot instances resulting in 30\% lower cost.

The only change needed is to add a service section for serving specific configuration:

```yaml
service:
  replicas: 2
  readiness_probe:
    path: /v1/chat/completions
    post_data:
      model: $MODEL_NAME
      messages:
        - role: user
          content: Hello! What is your name?
      max_tokens: 1
```

> And run the [SkyPilot YAML](https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/blob/master/llm/deepseek-r1/deepseek-r1-671B.yaml) with a single command:

Reviewer 2: Need to update the YAML link?
